Ans- 1 :- The software used to store, manage, query, and retrieve data stored in a relational database is called a relational database management system (RDBMS).The RDBMS 
provides an interface between users and applications and the database, as well as administrative functions for managing data storage, access, and performance
Advantage of RDBMS :- 1 Reducing Data Redundancy. The file based data management systems contained multiple files that were stored in many different locations in a 
system or even across multiple systems. ...
2 Sharing of Data.
3 Data Integrity. 
4 Data Security. 
5 Privacy. 
6 Backup and Recovery. 
7 Data Consistency.

Ans- 2 :- Atomicity:
By this, we mean that either the entire transaction takes place at once or doesn’t happen at all. There is no midway i.e. transactions do not occur partially. Each 
transaction is considered as one unit and either runs to completion or is not executed at all. It involves the following two operations. 
—Abort: If a transaction aborts, changes made to the database are not visible. 
—Commit: If a transaction commits, changes made are visible. 
Atomicity is also known as the ‘All or nothing rule’. 

Consistency:
This means that integrity constraints must be maintained so that the database is consistent before and after the transaction. It refers to the correctness of a database. 
Referring to the example above, The total amount before and after the transaction must be maintained.

Isolation:
This property ensures that multiple transactions can occur concurrently without leading to the inconsistency of the database state. Transactions occur independently 
without interference. Changes occurring in a particular transaction will not be visible to any other transaction until that particular change in that transaction is 
written to memory or has been committed. This property ensures that the execution of transactions concurrently will result in a state that is equivalent to a state 
achieved these were executed serially in some order. 

Durability: 
This property ensures that once the transaction has completed execution, the updates and modifications to the database are stored in and written to disk and they 
persist even if a system failure occurs. These updates now become permanent and are stored in non-volatile memory. The effects of the transaction, thus, are never lost.


Ans- 3 :- A large database defined as a single relation may result in data duplication. This repetition of data may result in:

* Making relations very large.
* It isn't easy to maintain and update data as it would involve searching many records in relation.
* Wastage and poor utilization of disk space and resources.
* The likelihood of errors and inconsistencies increases.
So to handle these problems, we should analyze and decompose the relations with redundant data into smaller, simpler, and well-structured relations that are satisfy 
desirable properties. Normalization is a process of decomposing the relations into relations with fewer attributes.

--> What is Normalization?
Normalization is the process of organizing the data in the database.
Normalization is used to minimize the redundancy from a relation or set of relations. It is also used to eliminate undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update,
and Deletion Anomalies.
Normalization divides the larger table into smaller and links them using relationships.
The normal form is used to reduce redundancy from the database table.
--> Why do we need Normalization?

The main reason for normalizing the relations is removing these anomalies. Failure to eliminate anomalies leads to data redundancy and can cause data integrity and
other problems as the database grows. Normalization consists of a series of guidelines that helps to guide you in creating a good database structure.

Ans- 4:- DDL (Data Definition Language): 
DDL or Data Definition Language actually consists of the SQL commands that can be used to define the database schema. It simply deals with descriptions of the 
database schema and is used to create and modify the structure of database objects in the database.DDL is a set of SQL commands used to create, modify, and delete 
database structures but not data. These commands are normally not used by a general user, who should be accessing the database via an application.

List of DDL commands: 

CREATE: This command is used to create the database or its objects (like table, index, function, views, store procedure, and triggers).
DROP: This command is used to delete objects from the database.
ALTER: This is used to alter the structure of the database.
TRUNCATE: This is used to remove all records from a table, including all spaces allocated for the records are removed.
COMMENT: This is used to add comments to the data dictionary.
RENAME: This is used to rename an object existing in the database.

DQL (Data Query Language):
DQL statements are used for performing queries on the data within schema objects. The purpose of the DQL Command is to get some schema relation based on the query 
passed to it. We can define DQL as follows it is a component of SQL statement that allows getting data from the database and imposing order upon it. It includes the 
SELECT statement. This command allows getting the data out of the database to perform operations with it. When a SELECT is fired against a table or tables the result 
is compiled into a further temporary table, which is displayed or perhaps received by the program i.e. a front-end.

List of DQL: 

SELECT: It is used to retrieve data from the database.

DML(Data Manipulation Language): 
The SQL commands that deals with the manipulation of data present in the database belong to DML or Data Manipulation Language and this includes most of the SQL 
statements. It is the component of the SQL statement that controls access to data and to the database. Basically, DCL statements are grouped with DML statements.

List of DML commands: 

INSERT : It is used to insert data into a table.
UPDATE: It is used to update existing data within a table.
DELETE : It is used to delete records from a database table.
LOCK: Table control concurrency.
CALL: Call a PL/SQL or JAVA subprogram.
EXPLAIN PLAN: It describes the access path to data.

DCL (Data Control Language): 
DCL includes commands such as GRANT and REVOKE which mainly deal with the rights, permissions, and other controls of the database system. 

List of  DCL commands: 

GRANT: This command gives users access privileges to the database.
REVOKE: This command withdraws the user’s access privileges given by using the GRANT command.

Ans-5 :- While a primary key and a composite key might do the same things, the primary key will consist of one column, where the composite key will consist of two 
or more columns.
* Primary Key exp:
CREATE TABLE emp(
name varchar(20),
id int,
project varchar(20)
);
Composite Key exp
CREATE TABLE voting (
  QuestionID int,
  MemberID int,
  PRIMARY KEY (QuestionID, MemberID)
);

Ans- 6 :- CREATE TABLE emp(
emp_name varchar(20),
emp_id int,
dept varchar(20),
UNIQUE(emp_name)
);



